---
title: Arrays
layout: post
date: 1000-01-08
permalink: arrays
program: back-end
tags: back-end
---

You can think of an array in Ruby as a box that can hold things: integers, strings, floats, other arrays, etc. It's a container for other elements. The elements are contained by straight brackets and separated by commas. Any number of elements can be put in an array.

Here are some examples of arrays:

```ruby
animals = ["piglet", "kitten"]
my_numbers = [1,2,3,4,5]
```

## What Can I Do With an Array?

Try these array methods out in IRB. What happens?

```ruby
> animals = ["piglet", "kitten"]
> animals.count
> animals << "penguin"
> animals.count
> animals << "koala"
> animals.count
> puts animals

> animals[0]
> animals.first
> animals[1]
> animals[2]
> animals[3]
> animals[0..2]
> animals[-1]
> animals.last
```

## Iterating Through Arrays

Create a new file `array_practice.rb` and paste in the following code:

```ruby
foods = ["apples", "bananas", "cookies", "ice cream"]
foods.each do |food|
  puts "I really like #{food}."
end
```

Modify this program to iterate through a list of programming terms and output a sentence "I am learning about (insert term here)" for each of the terms.


<div class="try-it">
<h2>Try It: Multiplication Practice</h2>

<p>Use what you know about arrays to iterate through a list of numbers and output the number multiplied by 5. The example below shows the output if the array was [4,7,8,12]</p>

<pre>4 multiplied by 5 is 20
7 multiplied by 5 is 35
8 multiplied by 5 is 40
12 multiplied by 5 is 60</pre>
Try getting started before looking at the code snippet below. If you're stuck, check out the starter code below:
</div>

```ruby
numbers = [10, 12, 17, 40, 55, 61]

numbers.each do |num|
  # put your code here
end
```

Phew! Let's try one more challenge. Before we do this, let's try out the modulo operator. Go into irb and type these out. Try to notice the pattern in order to figure out what the modulo (%) operator does:

```ruby
3%2
4%2
5%2
6%2
7%2

8%4
9%4
10%4
11%4
12%4
13%4
```

For our next project, we'll put together all of the skills we have learned so far in order to build our next project: FizzBuzz. 

<div class="try-it">
<h2>Challenge: FizzBuzz</h2>

<p>Make a program that goes through numbers 1 through 100 and says "Fizz" if the number is divisible by 3, "Buzz" if the number is divisible by 5, and "FizzBuzz" if the number is divisible by both. If the number is not divisible by either 3 or 5, then just print the number.</p>

<pre>1
2
Fizz
4
Buzz
Fizz
7
8
Fizz
Buzz
11
Fizz
13
14
FizzBuzz
...etc</pre>
Try getting started before looking at the code snippet below. If you're stuck, run the starter code below and see if you can modify it to make the FizzBuzz program:
</div>

```ruby
(1..100).each do |num|
  puts num
end
```
